<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: zlib-acknowledgement -->

assignment questions similar to problem set

problem set solution format to justify correctness of algorithm

“Create an array of size n where each element stores (x,y) where x represents blah and y represents blah”

is expected time complexity ok?

revisit discord course chat
# Assignment 1
## Question 1
1.1
  TODO: if A[j] = A[i] continue
**Algorithm**
* Sort array A using quick sort
* Initialise a left and right index pointer into array A.
  Let left index pointer i = 0
  Let right index pointer j = len(A) - 1
* Iterate over array A until i = j 
  With current index values, evaluate the expression 2A[i] - 3A[j] = k
  If k = x, then distinct indices found
  If k < x, then increment i. As A sorted, incrementing i will increase term 2A[i], thereby increasing k. 
  If k > x, then increment j. As A sorted, incrementing j will increase term 3A[j], thereby decreasing k. 
* If reach condition i = j, then no distinct indices found.
**Correctness**
* Although sorted as each element is distinct, know this works

**Time Complexity**
* Sorting array A using quicksort is O(nlogn)
* Finding length of array A to initialise right index pointer is O(n)
* Iterating over array A with left and right index pointers is O(n/2)
* Therefore, O(nlogn) + O(n) + O(n/2) = O(nlogn) 

1.2
**Algorithm**
* Populate a hashmap H with A, such that H maps values of A to their indexes in A
* Iterate over A, maintaining current index in variable i
  For the current value in A, A[i], compute the other value that must exist, A[j] to satisfy condition.
  I.e. Compute A[j] = (2A[j] - x) / 3
  TODO: if A[j] = A[i] continue
  Check if this value of A[j] exists in hashmap H
  If it exists, let its value, i.e. its index, be j 
  If j != i then found distinct indices 
* If complete iteration over A, then no distinct indices found.
**Correctness**

**Time Complexity**
* Populating hashmap H is O(n)
* Iterating over array A is O(n)
* Checking element in hashmap H is expected O(1)
* Therefore, O(n) + O(n)·O(1) = O(n)

1.3
TODO: remember, distinct and that i < j!
**Algorithm**
index_value_pairs_sorted=()
for i in A:
  pair = bin_search(index_value_pairs_sorted)
  j = pair.index
  if A[i] > A[j]: // unique check?
    add_pair()
    
**Correctness**

**Time Complexity**


## Question 2
2.1
**Algorithm**
* Sort A with quicksort
* Iterate over B, maintaining a running count of how many shared cards 
* For each card in B, check if it exists in A via binary search
  If card exists, increment shared card count
* Once iteration finished, the number of cards owned by Blake but not Red is (n - shared-card-count)
**Correctness**

**Time Complexity**

2.2 
**Time Complexity**
* As we are iterating over k students, we know the outer loop is O(k)
* The merge operation is O(S).
  Consider worst case with deck d1 and deck d2, where d1 + d2 = S
  If all cards in d1 are dissimilar to cards in d2, then have to loop over every card in S. 
* Therefore, O(k)·O(S) = O(S·k)
* As, k > logk, O(S·k) > O(S·logk)
  I.e. merging is growing linearly as opposed to logarithmically

2.3.
**Algorithm**
* Divide array N into two subarrays such that each subarray contains half of remaining decks.
  Recursively apply this division until subarray's contain one deck.
  This is the base case of recursion, as all cards in a single deck are distinct.
* Merge two subarrays, only adding distinct cards.
**Correctness**

**Time Complexity**
* IMPORTANT: divide and conquer doesnt reduce number of merges than linear, rather problem subset grows logarithmically not linearly
* The depth of recursion is O(logk)
* As each deck is sorted, we know that merging removing duplicates is O(S)

## Question 3
1.
https://edstem.org/au/courses/11846/discussion/1420778
a. lim∞ f'(x)/g'(x) is 0. 
f(n) grows fastest
Limit asymptotic theorem gives f(n) = O(g(n)) 
b. g(n) grows fastest  
c. f(n) grows faster but also shrinks faster? 

2. enough to just use Master Theorem?
critical polynomial is n^(log22) = n = f(n)
so, `θ(n^(logbᵃ)·log2ⁿ)` 
so, `θ(n^(1)·log2ⁿ)` 
